almost 20,000 Palestinians have been
killed many of them children mosques
churches schools and hospitals have all
been bombed as Israel continues its
genocidal war on Gaza seemingly
unchecked with the United Nations
security Council unable to pass a
resolution calling for an immediate
ceasefire Israel has been accused by
human rights organizations of committing
crimes against humanity in numerous war
crimes now many say that as this war
Contin news it is the very essence of
international law that is also at stake
let's take a sidebar and talk to Alan
duritz a former professor of law at
Harvard University and a leading figure
or expert in his field he believes that
organizations such as Doctors Without
Borders and even some of the United
Nations entities like UNICEF have
effectively been co-opted by Hamas to
push what he describes as hamas's
propaganda
[Music]
Mr D thank you very much for uh joining
us on sidebar uh you are professor of
law uh and somebody who has been working
in the legal field for decades and uh I
want to start by uh discussing what is
uh taking place now and the numerous
breaches to international law that
Israel has been accused of uh by many
different uh people over 60 days of what
has been described as's a idal war on
the people of Gaza um but you are
somebody who is uh been very vocal in
their support of uh Israel how do you uh
balance between those two things in
terms of uh somebody who's meant to
protect the implementation of Law and at
the same time defending uh a country
that has been accused of breaking
numerous International laws well it
starts of course with Hamas breaking the
most fundamental laws of humanity uh
attacking women and babies and children
and rapes rape is a war crime and
Israel's efforts to try to prevent a
recurrence remember Hamas leaders have
said that we're going to do October 7th
on October 8th and 9th and 10th we're
going to repeat it over and over again
and Hamas has this strategy they call it
the CNN strategy they purposely provoke
Israel by killing as many Israeli
civilians as possible knowing that
Israel will have to take take out their
rockets and their tunnels and their
commanders and then they hide their
commanders and their rockets and their
tunnels among civilians deliberately in
order to cause deaths among their own
civilians and then they parade these
dead babies in front of CNN in front of
the New York Times and they get the
world to react by condemning Israel
instead of by condemning Hamas for its
double War crime one attacking Israeli
civilians and second using Palestinian
civilians as human Shields so so you
you've you've touched on a number of
points there allegations of rape
allegations of uh using human Shields
and so forth and I do want to unpack
that but you didn't answer my question
about Israel breaking international law
do you believe that Israel has broken
international
law absolutely not Israel is acted
proportionately international law
requires that you evaluate the
seriousness of a military Target and
going after commanders and Rockets and
tunnels are a very very important
military Target and then you have to
evaluate the number of anticipated
civilian deaths and it has to be
proportional to the value of the Target
and then you have to do everything in
your power to minimize civilian deaths
Israel has no interest in killing any
Palestinian civilians quite the opposite
whenever they kill a Palestinian
civilian by accident they are condemned
in the court of public opinion so Israel
has every reason to minimize civilian
casualties and they try to but because
Hamas hides behind human Shields
inevitably there are some civilian
casualties too many but the
responsibility lies with the US let me
before you get into that example I just
want to ask you something from the
18,000 18,000 Palestinians who have been
killed of which 8,000 are children how
many have been Hamas
Fighters well the Israelis estimate
about 7,000 including by the way
children children are Fighters uh child
is defined by Hamas as anybody under 19
and many of their Fighters are 177 and
18 so they're counted as children but
they're they're combatants but I want to
get to my example let's assume that I
decide to rob a bank and the police come
in and start shooting at me and I grab
you as a hostage and I hold you in front
of me and I keep killing civilians and
then the police take aim at me but
accidentally kill you who is resp under
qari law under Sharia law under American
law under the law of every country
obvious viously it's not the policeman
who fired trying to kill the the the the
hostage taker uh it's the hostage taker
who's responsible and so I think Hamas
is responsible for many of the deaths uh
that are tragic and that have resulted
from them using uh human shield so so
let's let's take that analogy uh in this
situation the Hamas are bank robbers
they're thieves right uh and they've
taken hostages um but based on that
analogy Hamas is taking is essentially
stealing something on that analogy what
Hamas would say is actually Israel is
the bank robber because it has stolen
land and it has put uh civilians in
kabut and put civilians on land that
doesn't belong to them in illegal
settlements and therefore those who were
killed on October 7th their
responsibility lies on the Israeli
government based on your analogy but the
analogy doesn't hold because what Hamas
did was not robbing a bank was murdering
1200 who who are put there as human
Shields by Israel on the border of Gaza
on land that doesn't belong to them
according to the international uh uh law
on in settlements and places that don't
uh that people do not recognize to be
Israeli territory everybody recognizes
the kibu Sim in the south of Israel to
be Israeli territory there that's part
of Israel that was part of the 1947 1948
United Nation resolution these are not
settlements these are not
uh areas captured in
1967 or these are areas that have been
part of Israel from the beginning if the
Palestinians that just said yes to the
UN resolution of 1947 1948 which Israel
accepted there would have been a large
Palestinian State and there would
be Mr you you say everybody recognizes
it but Israel itself Israel itself
hasn't defined its borders where are
Israel's borders for people to recognize
them well the the borders on the south
in the netive are recognized the borders
were recognized between Egypt and Israel
in the Camp David Egypt and Israel yes
but the borders between between what you
say let me finish the borders between
Israel and Gaza are recognized by every
virtually every country in the world uh
and nobody would have called the members
of The kibud Sim remember these people
who were killed were peac Nicks these
were people who opposed Netanyahu these
were people who supported a two-state
solution and let's remember that the
Hamas Charter opposes the two-state
solution it that's the old Charter
that's sorry the the new Charter that
that came out talks about a 20-year
truce if 1967 borders were accepted in a
true state but but let's finish one
point at a time we will come to it I I
do want to ask you about something you
and it's a very important point you said
that everybody recognizes those borders
we had Benjamin Netanyahu stand up at
the United Nations with a map of a new
Middle East that did not have any
reference whatsoever not to a state of
Palestine not even to Palestinian
territories it had historic Palestine
completely as Israel could you point me
to the article in Israel's Constitution
or anywhere within Israel that
identifies Israel's borders please oh
sure uh there there are many things
within Israel's basic laws that identify
the borders look whenever the
Palestinians come to the UN they have
maps that show no Israel many of the
countries of the world have maps that
don't include Israel I don't think nanyo
was right when he did that I strongly
support the two-state solution as do
most Israelis support a two-state
solution it's Hamas that strongly
opposes it Palestine will be free from
The River To The Sea meaning free of
Jews it will be cleaned what does that
mean it means that Jews are dirty and
that they have to be cleaned out if the
Palestinian opponents of Israel were to
lay down their arms there would be peace
if Israel lay down its arms there would
be genocide of the kind we saw on
October 7th I think we could have a
two-state solution uh if Hamas was
destroyed and no longer had any power
then the Palestinian Authority in Israel
could work together on a peaceful
two-state solution I would support that
I have met with the Amir of Qatar who's
a wonderful man who I like very much
I've met with his brother I've met with
his mother we have supported the
two-state solution I would work very
hard on the two-state solution if ramas
did not exist a barrier to the two-state
solution remember there was relative
ceasefire between Israel and Hamas until
October 7th and then without provocation
with fake provocations you know the
stuff about what was going on in the
Temple mount that was a fake because
these were plans months in advance the
Hamas decided to kill as many Israeli
civilians as possible in order to invoke
the CNN strategy of having Israel kill
cians and then be condemned by the world
opinion that's again I we will we'll
unpack it all we will come to the Future
and so forth but again can you please
tell me what identifies within the
Israeli state or within their
constitution where it clearly defines
what Israel's borders are and it's basic
laws it's basic laws the the entire ass
uh there there's a dispute on the West
Bank to be sure but there's no dispute
about the area where these horrible
barbarous murders occurred that is
Israel and if you think that's not
Israel then you're not
recognized my my view is irrelevant to
this I'm I'm asking I think the qari
government and I think the Amir of Qatar
and I think you should ask him that
question I think the Qatari government
and the Amir of Qatar recognizes that
the areas that Hamas invaded and killed
people in is a legitimate part of Israel
that is not disputed by Qatar it is not
disputed by Jordan it is not disputed by
Egypt I I don't believe it's disputed by
Saudi Arabia it's disputed by you no no
I'm not I'm I I don't dispute anything
like I said I'm purely asking a question
here the reason why I'm asking you about
Israel's borders is because you have uh
uh uh put forward a narrative that this
was an unprovoked attack inside Israel
and uh Israel is defending itself and
that Hamas is using human Shields to the
end of it what we have seen over the
past uh few weeks is Israeli Flags being
planted inside Gaza and rhetoric being
pushed by senior Israeli officials and
military personnel saying that we will
take back Gaza and in the absence of
Israel being one of the only States if
not the only States within the United
Nations that has not defined clearly
what its borders are it could be argued
that those on the other side of the
conflict will are excused to understand
or to engage military
in areas that have not been defined as a
state this is what I'm asking you so
where has Israel defined its borders
that's all I want to
know let's first of all talk about
military action this wasn't military
action rape is not there's been no
evidence of rape I'm sorry there is
there has been zero evidence of rape
aside from the words that have been put
forward by the Israeli government which
has also pushed forward things like
behind the scenes footage of a Lebanese
film that has spoken about 40 beheaded B
that shown calendars as if they names of
Hamas commanders you're you're standing
here now and denying that they was rape
you're not believing the women who have
come forward saying there's been no
independent verification of it as a
journalist we require there hasn't been
the United States has accepted the the
United States accepted the 40 dead baby
story that means
nothing the what baby no look babies
were beheaded babies were killed look if
you can't accept the fact that there was
rape and murder if you think think that
what happened is um an ordinary military
activity then there's no sense Contin
with this conversation forget about what
I think sir I'm asking that question the
same I would ask question the evidence
of rape is
overwhelming the evidence of beheadings
and murder but even if there wasn't any
rape even if there wasn't any murder you
have to admit that the vast majority of
the 12,000 people who were killed were
at a peace conference a song conference
they were Ordinary People they support
the two solution people came to their
homes and murdered their children in
front of them that is not a military
acted so what I would like to ask you
based on this and as Gastly as what you
have said is what I want to ask you is
you and those who support Israel say
what took place on October 7th was uh
unforgivable and required a very clear
response yes and it's unforgivable
because so many civilians were killed in
their homes and in front of their family
members that's not why it's unforgivable
it's unforgivable because the intention
the goal the intention was to kill
civilians civilians die in war civilians
die when they're used as human Shields
you can't make any comparison between
the civilians who were killed by Israel
in its attempt to prevent a recurrence
of the attack and the civilians who were
deliberately murdered in front of their
children babies deliberately murdered
they were not collateral damage that was
the go that was the purpose of the
invasion to kill and murder babies and
civilians no comparison let me ask you
let me ask you you say no comparison our
colleague who's a veteran journalist for
Al jaer whilst on air uh his wife and
his children and his grandchildren were
killed they had taken refuge in the
place that Israel had asked them to take
refuge in okay uh there was no Hamas
Fighters there at all we can verify this
as one of of our colleagues were and
Israel has one of the most sophisticated
if not the most sophisticated militaries
in the
world how might to believe the intention
of Israel when he was forced to bury his
children and his uh grandchildren and
they were babies very simple very simple
how you believe it is because Israel has
no interest what conceivable interest
let's assume Israel is the worst country
in the world why would they ever want to
kill babies and children they know that
it hurts them it gets away with it
that's why Israel's got gotten away with
it for decades they're condemmed by
every group in the world they're
condemned by Human Rights Watch because
the assumption is the wrong assumption
that maybe that was done deliberately
but it was never done deliberately if
Hamas would stop using human Shields
then civilians would stop being killed
now I know that some of the journalists
who were killed were killed by because
they stayed up in the nor no they were
in the South they were in the South sir
well they were they were different there
are different groups but what other
country in the world has ever given
notice before they've attacked has sent
leaflets have put out Notions at all
Israel according to Colonel Kemp the
former head of the British uh
Afghanistan unit said that no country in
history has done more to protect
civilians than Israel but no country in
history no group in history like Kamas
has done more to prevent uh have done
more to endanger their own civilians by
putting them In Harm's Way they've
bragged about it they talk about how
everybody is a Shahid everybody is a
martyr we use women in Shields we have
quotes from Hamas leaders saying we use
women that the disabled the elderly and
children as human Shields and Israel
kills them and then they're condemned by
World opinion so Hamas it why are you
denying I'm not denying anything I I
just want to to get uh understanding and
perspective from from all sides and and
you quoted there you were saying Hamas
claims uh that everybody is a martyr and
so forth so I want to give you a few
quotes and and hear your thoughts on it
Amit Hal or who is a member of the ceset
for the liquid ruling liquid party he
says there should be only two goals with
regards to what is happening now in Gaza
there is no more uh Muslim land in the
land of Israel Gaza should be left as a
monument like Sodom what do you think of
that so that's wrong I condemn it I
condemn it unequivocally I condemn much
of what is said by the extreme Israeli
right but those weren't the people who
were killed not to justify killing or
nuts but what I'm saying is you're
depicting that Israel is the most moral
army or a very Moral Moral Army but the
people who are giving its orders I I
want to quote you the people who are in
power now and they are the ones who are
giving orders you have the deputy
speaker of parliament okay Nim rri who
says expel them all right you have the
Heritage M Minister who said who who
said that you should drop a nuclear bomb
on Gaza now how is that something that
is going to bring trust in journalists
or the public that Israel doesn't intend
to kill children I completely agree with
you that those statements are
Abominations and they're rejected by
most Israelis and they're rejected by
the leadership of Israel no one has ever
ever and I challenge you to give me one
case no one has ever ever ordered a
soldier in the IDF to kill a child or to
kill an innocent civilian it just never
happens what happens is because Hamas
uses children as human Shields despite
all the great efforts that Israel makes
not to kill children inevitably children
die and Hamas uses that as a way of
attacking Israel it's part of their
strategy it's called the dead baby
strategy they deliberately use babies as
human Shields they don't care about
their own civilians they have tunnels in
which the fighters hide but they won't
allow their own civilians to use their
tunnels to hide remember Israel has
spent hundreds of millions of dolls if
they use uh surely if Hamas was to put
civilians in their tunnels then that
would be using them as human Shields no
the fact that they are separating their
operational uh locations from the
civilian location
actually disproves what you're saying
no not separating them they're building
the tunnels underneath MOS underneath
schools just yesterday Israel found
underneath a school underneath a
classroom a tunnel that was used by
Hamas terrorists Hamas could easily
build Shields Tunnels for civilians so
why do why why does if Israel knows that
these tunnels are under these buildings
okay and you're saying that they find
these tunnels after they've bombed them
why why do they bomb them then if the
tunel if they don't have any impact on
the tunnels if they're underground and
you're saying that they protect the
people why bomb the schools and kill all
of those people if if the idea is that
the tunnels are underneath anywhere and
the bombs don't do anything to them and
they find them intact but they seemingly
find them intact
afterwards we know that they didn't bomb
the hospital we know that that was an
errant rocket which hospital many
there's many many hospitals hospital
where 500 people were killed in the
parking lot that was a false story that
was circulated by Hamas and by the
Palestinian about the Indonesian
hospital or shifa hospital or Nas
hospital all of those ones uh Doctors
Without Borders has become part of Hamas
and they speak for Hamas and they
protect Hamas and they cover for Hamas
and hospitals are used there are
pictures of Fighters wearing the green
headband carrying RPGs walking into the
hospital as if they owned it we know
that hospitals are used as ways to
protect right after the Savage attacks
of October 7th some of the terrorists
went immediately to the hospitals to
hide there knowing that Israel would be
reluctant to bomb the hospitals Israel
then warns people and and and and and
bombs in areas where there are Rockets
coming from you say that Israel fires
from safe areas Israel fires on safe
areas as soon as an area is declared
safe Hamas goes there and fires Rockets
from it in order to induce Israel to
fire into the civilian areas that's the
plan of Hamas that's what it does that's
why it's so successful and effective
that's why it'll happen over and over
and over again unless Hamas is destroyed
and the biggest beneficiaries of Hamas
being destroyed would be the Palestinian
people can can I just ask you something
you said something about uh Doctors
Without
Borders but not one this rule by ter so
you said something about Doctors Without
Borders and that they have been
recruited by Hamas you said that's right
has has UNESCO been recruited by Hamas
sorry or UNICEF rather has UNICEF been
been recruited by Hamas abely all three
of them have become voices for Hamas
none of them have any credibility around
the world in objective people and who
hasn't who hasn't been recruited by if
you don't mind me saying and now we see
the climate movement that young woman
from
Sweden
now mouthpiece for Hamas but just
because the world condemns uh many in
the world condemn Israel doesn't mean
that Israel is is wrong Israel is not
perfect but compared to Hamas uh Hamas
is is the greatest evil that the
Palestinian people ever face and if
Hamas is destroyed the people of
Palestine will be so pleased and happy
because Hamas because Gaza could have
been Singapore in the Mediterranean when
Israel left it just I need to ask a few
questions if you don't mind I will ask
you about Israel uh uh supposedly
leaving 2005 but I just want to ask
again you've now told me that uh Doctors
Without Borders that UNICEF and even the
climate movement been recruited by Hamas
or they are Hamas spokes people okay who
hasn't been recruited by Hamas like who
who who in your view has credibility
does the former uh does does the
founding ICC prosecutor l Marino aampo
does was he recruited by Hamas as well
or is he somebody who has credibility no
no no Lis aampo is a good friend of mine
we taught together at law school can I
quote something from him
he's I know what he said and I disagree
with him but he has credibility I
believe generally credibility but many
of these other organizations do not uh
the United States state department has
credibility Great Britain has
credibility uh some of the other
European countries have uh credibility
Germany has credibility but Doctors
Without Borders do not but let's get to
but I want to to say something if you
don't mind just let's make it a bit of a
two-way just if you don't mind so so as
I mentioned there ampo ampo who was the
founding prosecutor of the international
criminal court he says The Siege on Gaza
even before October 7th and before what
we are witnessing now okay these are his
words The Siege on Gaza is a form of
genocide because it is inflicting
conditions that he didn't say qu you
word for word and we can play it quote
said this after he said this after
October 7 not before October he was let
me clarify
it he was talking about post October
sath so you totally misled your viewers
let me and and what we will do is we
will actually play this we will play
this we will play this to hear it the
siege of Gaza itself that is
extermination or persecution as a crime
against humanity and it's a form of
genocide article 6 C or 2 C in the
genocide convention Define that you
don't need to kill people to commit
genocide the the the rule say inflicting
conditions to destroy the group that
itself is a genocide so creating The
Siege itself is a genocide and that is
very clear the Israel W The Siege is
very clear and the intention
to destroy the people many officers from
the Israel government are expressing
genocidal intentions that why it's easy
to say and the reasonable basis to
believe Israel is committing a genocide
in Gaza just on the siege then each
bombing each of the killings should be
properly investigated but come on we
have already clear The Siege itself is a
genocide he said that the siege on Gaza
The Siege on Gaza is a form of
genocide he said when prior to he said
it after October 7th but made it very
clear in his interview with Mark Lemont
Hill on aler English that this siege
that has been in place prior even to
October 7th amounts to genocide righte
prior to October 7th there was a ceased
fire that was broken by Hamas Hamas was
get Gaza was getting all kind of
material all kind of food there was no
Siege you're just lying to the people
when you say that he said this and you
said this he said
this he didn't before October 7th get
him on television interview him tell him
I told you to put him on television and
ask him directly whether he thinks there
was genocide being committed against the
Palestinian people before October 7th
his answer will be no so so let me ask
you two questions here number one you
claimed that there was no Siege before
October 7th when over uh the past since
2006 really uh there has been a Siege on
Gaza where
Gaza if if you let me let me just finish
and then you can disagree all you like
right where Israel has controlled all of
the borders bar the one with Egypt where
Israel controls the tax money going in
where Israel controls the sources of
electricity and of water where Israel uh
controls the water ways and how far in
Palestinian fishermen can go where
Israel controls the sky and whether
people can fly in it or not where Israel
controls the land and this it's a good
thing Let Me Tell let me just finish the
question if you don't mind this
constitutes this constitutes you want to
call it a lighter version you want to
call it a blockade you want to call it a
Siege it in ensures that Israel has a
strangle hold on 2 million people it is
what has led to un officials calling
Gaza an open air prison the largest in
the world it is what Hamas says that its
reasoning behind the October 7th lies in
the decades long oppression of the
people right and here is where I want to
ask you because you started your clock
on October 7th many Palestinians start
their clock not just in 2005 not in 1967
in fact in 1948 or 1947 you say that
Hamas has brought death and destruction
but Di Yasin and the massacre of De
Yasin where pregnant women were lined up
and killed happened in
1947-48 you've had the uh tantura and
other uh massacres that have taken place
have happen Place much more before
that a question let me answer let's
start first with October um 7th um and
and and and what you say uh happened
there uh remember that uh Israel ended
its occupation of the Gaza Strip in 2005
thean didn't end occupation let me me an
answer now the Palestinian Authority
took over at that time there was no
Siege it was only when Hamas in a brutal
coup murdered the pal inian Authority
leaders took over and sent 6,000 Rockets
into stot and areas in the south of
Israel it was only after Hamas a
terrorist organization started attacking
Israel that Israel did with every other
country in the world would do it said
wait a minute you're at war with us and
if you're at war with us we have to
control the borders and make sure you
don't get Rockets Make sure you don't
get uh dirty bombs make sure you don't
get the kinds of material that you used
on October 7th so Hamas uh if they
hadn't taken over in
200 and six and 7 Singapore on the sea
could have been what Gaza was it's a
beautiful area it's on the ocean they
could have had a wonderful community and
instead Hamas turned it into an open air
prison Hamas killed all the opponents
Hamas killed gay people Hamas killed
feminists Hamas why isn't there a
Singapore in the West Bank
where Hamas doesn't
rule R is a sing I've been to R several
times rala is a nicer city than
Jerusalem you don't see a single
policeman you don't see a single Israeli
you don't see a single
soldier have you not seen the news over
the past 24 hours there have been
Palestinians killed in Ral in the past
24 hours by the
Israelis you're not letting me talk the
food inala is better than in Jerusalem
the the homes are beautiful
people have fantastic cars they have
Rolex watches rala is a Palestinian
State on the West Bank and if the rest
of the West Bank and Gaza were like rala
we could have a two-state solution
Israel would easily make peace with
ramala but the problem is there's janin
the problem is there's tarum the problem
is there's Gaza City the problem is
there conun and from those places Israel
is under attack and it has the absolute
right and obligation to protect its own
citizens and that's what it's been doing
if everybody were like rala they would
be peace in the Middle East but as the
prime minister of Israel many years ago
said if Israel laid down its arms
there'd be genocide if Hamas laid down
its arms there'd be peace let Hamas
surrender let it give up Let there beace
on the St on the on what you described
as ramala and as you mention you asked
me if I've been there I've been there
ramala there's a the kalandia
checkpoints are you familiar with the
the
checkpoint yeah no I've been through it
it takes about 10 through no no for you
it takes 10 seconds for a Palestinian it
can take three
hours is a beautiful please please Mr
desit you can't brush this aside if you
don't mind for you it will take 10
seconds to get anywhere around Israel
for a Palestinian they can stay two
hours at A checkpoint if not longer
there have been Palestinian women who've
been forced to give birth there is a
separation barrier I've been there okay
and there's footage again we can show
there is a sep separation wall which has
been described by human rights
organizations as an apartheid wall that
prevents people from going from one
place to another in the West Bank okay
not human organizations you're talking
about Human Rights Watch which is paid
by and by George Soros and which has no
credibility anywhere in the Western
World human right watch Doctors Without
Borders UNICEF and Greta tumber
or none of them
have all of them have no credibility
they're all pramas and about what about
bet does betum have any credibility or
are they also Hamas some credibility
I've worked with betum I agree with some
of their views but betum would not
justify the I'm not talking about the
attack now I'm talking about your
allegation or your claim that there is a
Singapore and ramala
B B Salam B Salam clearly states that
Israel is implementing a parthe in the
West Bank this is something but it's not
they're wrong they're wrong about that
so they're only right when when when
they're not condemning Israel Israel
Israel offered to end its occupation in
the West Bank they offered it in 19
2007 and the Palestinians have said no
they offered 98% of the West bank and a
Palestinian capital I know because ahod
Omar is my friend and he was the one who
made that offer there could havean state
if the Palestinians had just said yes
but the Palestinian leadership does not
know how to say take yes for an answer
mrz Mr I think it's important to be to
be accurate with certain things yes they
offered some of those things they didn't
offer the capital in Jerusalem they did
not offer the right of return for
Palestinian refugees which is in shrined
in international law and in the United
Nations resolution no country world has
ever accepted a right it is ined in
international law if
you in Pakistan has been a right of
return in in in where the the places of
Germany that the Russians have taken
over it would be the only instance in
history where there has been a right of
return and Israel offered a symbolic
right of return to people who were
related to the people who live in Israel
but the Palestinians rejected it
categorically you can't get everything
but the Palestinians bear enormous
responsibility for there not being a
two-state solution yes Rabin wanted a
two-state solution he was murdered for
murdered by who and M wanted in two
states and they were murdered for it no
I'm talking about iban sa and others in
the Palestinian side Sadat who was
murdered for it every country has its
own problems but there would be a
two-state solution if the Palestinians
said said yes to ahot Mer's offer or to
Bill Clinton's offer or to ah barack's
offer there would be a Palestinian State
there'd be no occupation of the West
Bank I'm hoping will happen if Hamas is
destroyed Hamas is destroy there can be
a two-state solution let me ask you this
question do you favor a two-state
solution I don't favor anything I didn't
just asking questions does qar does
thear don't I don't speak for the Kat
government and I have no idea IDE what
what their views are I have no problem
guessing them and asking them but I'm
I'm here to ask you don't mind I'm here
just to ask questions I honestly have no
option no opinion what I'm asking here
is this and you you've said something
and it's really important that we we we
take this here you now have put the hus
uh largely if not solely on the
Palestinians for there not being a
two-state solution okay y signed the oo
Accords for the preceding year or for
the following years after that uh there
was no move towards a Palestinian state
in fact the Israeli Lobby in many
countries prevented government from
recognizing a Palestinian State yat
ended up dying Under Siege in the M
either by some theories being poisoned
if not at least what we saw was
surrounded by Israeli tanks which to
totally destroyed the center of power of
that Palestinian Authority so for you to
claim that somehow Israel has been this
Dove of peace and it has been the
Palestinians that have been rejecting it
is simply not true not least because it
is not asking a question now you're
making a statement so let me answer the
question after the
200201 peace process went forward and
Arafat said no he started anapat and
killed many many Israelis as a result of
that he got the Nobel Peace Prize it
should have been taken away he started
the inapa after after after Bill Clinton
I spoke to Bill Clinton about this let
me tell you about what happened Arafat
called Bill Clinton when he was leaving
the office and Arafat said to Bill
Clinton congratulations Mr President
you've done a great job and Clinton said
I could have done a great job if not for
you you were the one who ruined it you
were the one who prevented there being a
two-state solution and he was and and
and Clinton was Furious furious at arat
and Arafat after he rejected the
two-state solution started in inata
buses were being blown up and that's the
actual reality Israel would like to live
in peace Israel was happy to live in
peace on a sliver of land that was given
by the heel Commission in 1937 1938
Israel accepted that the Palestinians
said no and there have been Wars ever
since remember the first program didn't
occur at diin it occurred in at at at in
heon in heon in
1929 when the uh uh grand grand muy of
Jerusalem called on the Muslims to kill
the Jews because the Jews were praying
at the Western Wall so you know yeah you
want to go back in time we can go back
in time but this could have been solved
in 1948 it could have been solved in
1967 it could have been solved in 1973
it was solved between Egypt and Israel
and Jordan in after
1973 but the Palestinian leadership has
refused refuse to accept any offer that
the Israelis made you have to have
compromise so so so where is the
compromise on the side of the Israelis
now I would the Qatari government help
as it's help in the hostage situation
help in creating a two-state solution
where is the compromise where is the
compromise on the Israeli
side where is the compromise on the
Israeli side right now I can help I can
tell you this I can help BR that about
if if if I hear from the people of of of
the Palestinian side that there's an
interest in the two-state solution look
I met with the Amir of Qatar I met with
his brother along with Donald Trump uh
when they visited each other uh in in in
the white house um I I met with him at
the Bal Meister hotel and we had a very
good talk and and and the the Amir of
qar and his brother seemed to be willing
to help create a peaceful solution I'd
like to I'd like to invite them again I
don't speak for the Israeli government
of course but I certainly can Advocate
within the Israeli government a
two-state solution if there was any
interest on the other side I had dinner
I had dinner with a I just want to ask
something that's very important here
you've said you don't speak for the
government but you can Advocate to them
you've Also earlier in this program said
to me obviously that this right-wing
government you don't agree with them and
so forth and I've given you quotations
of them essentially saying the most
outrageous things that they have said
why do you think it is okay for people
to accept uh mediation with a right-wing
government that has essentially been
genocidal in its both actions and words
but it's not okay to try and find a
mediator to discuss with the Palestinian
side and in fact they just need to be
wiped off the map Hamas and others why
is it not I want to have a mediator and
and if if Hamas wants to the political
wing of Hamas wants to participate uh
that's fine I want to see mediation I
want to see negotiation instead of uh
the killing of people and the the the
solution that Hamas has to cross the
border and murder 1200 Israeli citizens
and rape and kill is not a movement
toward peace it's a movement you see
where the problem is here sorry there is
there is a clear double standards in
Outrage where you are outraged by the
murder of 12200 people but you are not
outraged by your own admission if you
tell 7,000 of the 18,000 were militants
well 11,000 weren't that's 11 times more
or 10 times more let's say than the ones
that were killed why is this selective
outrage something that people should
accept I'm very confused they should
they should accept it because you should
be much more outraged at the deliberate
willful premeditated murder and rape of
innocent people then you should by
efforts itself No One Believes those I'm
sorry I tell you now in the Arabs
streets you've seen the protest in
London you've seen the protest in New
York even the Jewish community in the
United States sir doesn't believe that
there is an intentional effort by the
Israeli governments to protect civilians
we've seen it for Jews for justice for
Palestine Jews for peace well Jews for
Palestine is a fake organization it
doesn't consist of Jews they use the
name Jews let me give you an example
from history so the Germans murdered six
million Jews in concentration camps they
killed them and and then the United
States bom bom Hiroshima Nagasaki and
bombed Berlin is there any comparison no
the the murder of people deliberately
taking babies and putting them in gas
Chambers or taking babies and cutting
their heads off in Israel is very
different from what you have happen in
war in war there are civilian casualties
100,000 people died in aosaki 100,000
people died in Hiroshima many more died
in the invasion of Berlin and no there
wasn't that kind of outrage I think
you'll find you'll find a lot of people
were outraged I can tell you I think
there shouldn't be any selective outrage
I think I think the death of in and the
killing of yeah the killing of innocent
people should be condemned
everywhere I condemn everywhere the
death of innocent people I condemn far
more the deliberate targeting of
innocent people the deliberate effort to
rape murder behead burn innocent babies
and children than I do killings that
occurred in the fog of War as the result
of human Shields yeah I do have much
much greater condation of the former
than the ladder just as I have much
greater condemnation of the gas Chambers
than I do of Nagasaki and I want end on
a final I want to end on a final
question if you don't mind on intention
and protection a few years ago the
Israeli Supreme Court unanimously
rejected a call by human rights
organizations Israeli ones including
yesin to declare it unlawful for Israeli
soldiers to shoot unarmed civilians how
does this sit with your claim that there
is an intention not to kill civilians
it's Supreme Court I know the Supreme
Court decision it didn't do that it
didn't say
that can tell you the Supreme Court has
said over and over again that it is
unlawful to kill unarmed civilians they
also said it was unlawful to take
hostages the Supreme Court of Israel has
been diamond in in in the world in terms
of Defending human rights it's made it
much harder for the Israeli Army to
operate the way other armies do do you
know that in Israel no go no Army can
take a decision in violation of The
Advocate General's rules whereas in the
United States and other countries it's
just advisory but in Israel it's
compulsory and the Supreme Court of
Israel has never Justified the killing
the deliberate willful killing of
unarmed civilians it's just never
happened I know I'm an expert on Israeli
Supreme Court I taught a course at
Harvard Law School with the president of
the Israeli Supreme Court Aon Barack I
follow their decisions every day and I
challenge you to give your public we
will put it up on the screen when we
come to broadcast put that that you say
says that is perfectly permissible to
kill unarmed civilians that's just so
what I said just just for to clarify
again because I think you misquoted me
here the Israeli Supreme Court unan
unanimously rejected a call by human
rights organizations including the
Israeli human rights organization yeshin
to declare it unlawful for soldiers to
shoot unarmed civilians this is what the
Israeli Supreme Court did I believe the
ruling was in 2018 and you can and our
viewers can check
it sorry that's not an accurate
statement it's a misunderstanding of the
role of the Supreme Court in Israel it's
just not a correct statement let me be
very clear I condemn the vast majority
of Israelis condemn the Israeli Supreme
Court condemns any shooting of any
unarmed person deliberately and
willfully it's wrong and it should never
happen and and the vast majority of
Israelis agree with that whereas the
vast majority of Palestinians supported
the attack of October 7th which included
the rape the murder the beheading and
the burning of children so that's the
reality that's the truth and we have to
face up to that and I down with the
Palestinians I'll happy to offer my
efforts I've been do doing this been
trying to get peace between Israel and
the Palestinians for 70 years I'd like
to continue that and I'd like a year
from now for us to interview each other
in which we can talk about a time when
there's a two-state solution and peace
between two wonderful people the Jewish
people and the Arab course I'm sure I'm
sure one thing that people are hopeful
for is that the killing can end
obviously as you mentioned there if you
say that people condemn the killing of
unarmed uh civilians um the idea is
about and deliberates obviously we have
our colleague sharen abak who was killed
deliberately uh and very clearly on
camera until now there has been no
justice for her that's not true based on
on our investigations and and the video
evidence that that's there it was there
but that's all we have time for for this
episode of sidebar Mr Alan deitz thank
you very much for your time I appreciate
thank you
[Music]